HW 1
=======
 
Question 1.1
-----------
The DOM is a model of the structure of a document, which is made up of different objects.  
This DOM can be generated by languages like HTML and generated/modified with Javascript.  
Therefore the HTML and Javascript source code containts the routines that generate and modify the DOM. The DOM-Inspector shows the current state of the DOM, once it has been created and modified.  
The DOM is useful for debugging the HTML code and understanding what has been generated. It can also be useful to quickly try out changes (i.e. trying out diffent font colors)  
The HTML source is useful to create permanent and repeatable routines that generate or modify the DOM.


Question 1.2
-----------
The table is written in Markdown (a markup language). Thus the html table is generated by a markup to html converter.  
The data is stored inline in the answers.md file and copied over from the countries__2012.json file.  
Alternatively the same table can be created as a html table using javascript/d3. The data can then be directly loaded from the countries_2012.jason file.


Question 2.1
-----------
No, I would not filter other columns in the same way.  
gdp, life expectancy and population I would filter using a range widget that allows to specify bottom and lower numerical limits.  
Year I would filter using a range widget that allows to specify bottom and lower numerical limits or a dropdown widget.  
Name I would filter using individual links for each letter that the user can click A B C D .... X Y Z

Question 3.1
-----------
We could aggregate the data by year. The aggregation would be activated by a radio button. The aggregated data can be shown in a table in which rows that indicate a specific year are followed by rows that show all countries for which data in the specific year is available and their year-specific data. (can be come very long)  
Alternatively the data can be aggregated in the same way as implemented in this homework for country specific aggregation.   

We could also aggregate the data according to the numerical fields (gdp, life expectation, population).  
The user can activate the aggregation with a radio button and afterwards set an interval i.e. 250 Million.  
Our application would then display 5 tables showing countries with a population from 0-250M people, 250-500M, 500-750M, 750-1000M, 1000-1250M people.  
An optimal interval could also be automatically be calculated by the application. 
 
We could also aggregate the data by the first letter of the country name (however I dont see when this would be beneficial) using a radio button and a html table.



Question 4.1 
-----------
The attribute years is an array of objects. Each object contains the gdp, life expectancy, etc. data for a specific year.

Question 5.1
-----------
SVG allows us to flexibly define graphics in code.   
+ These graphics can  be dynamically modified using js, which makes it easier to create animations. For example by changing sizes or position when a user presses a button.  
+ We can create complex graphics with SVG that we would not be possible to create with CSS/HTML or only possible to implement using prerendered graphics, which is often is inflexible. For example in terms of shapes, HTML only offers block elements like divs, ps, to which we can apply border, rounded borders, gradients, etc. In contrast SVG also offers ellipse, paths, polygons, etc.   
Example: If we wanted to visualize data in pie charts. We could do this with HTML/CSS using prerendered images for each pie charts. This would be inflexible, load slowly and very difficule to make interactive. SVG is better suited in this case. 


HTML/CSS    
+ HTML comes with many preimplemented widgets that would need to be manually designed with SVG.  
Example: For this homework, we use html radio buttons, checkboxes etc. to save time. It would also be possible to implement them in SVG.  
+ If we want to create a website that focues on showing a lot of text content, it is often faster and easier to use html elements like divs in combination with CSS to set up the layout of the website. For example SVG you are expected to set the x,y coordinates for every element. In HTML you can simply define multiple divs,  ps, imgs, etc. that will be stacked on top of each other by default.  
	+ not using SVG provides better backwards compatibility, since many old browsers which are sometimes still used on enteprise computers, do not support svg yet. (for example Internet Explorer before version 8)



Question 7.1 
-----------
In order to explore factors that drive stock prices it would be appropriate to create an interactive visualization, since this is not a well defined question. A line plot that shows the developments of different stock prices and allows factors like GDP growth, industry growth, inflation to be plotted in the same graph. Furthermore the stocks can be filtered and the time span that is being plotted can be set. Using this visualization it is possible to identify (non-linear) relationships that can not be found using regressions analysis or other methods.

Question 7.2
-----------
A single static view can only show one aspect of a dataset, which is insufficient to understand complex datasets. Using interaction the user can change dynamically try out and combine different views of the dataset quickly. For example combining different sorting and filtering methods like in this homework.

Question 7.3
-----------
Computational capacity, human perceptual and cognitive capacity and display capacity.

Question 7.4
-----------
Semantics are important because they allow the user to recognize the real-world meaning of the data. For example the numbers 5,8,19,20 could mean anything from ages of children to lunch prices. Without semantics describing the data, the user will not be able to tell.

Question 7.5 
-----------
a) two quantitative attributes are measurements of magnitude that can be arithmeticaly compared. For example I can compare 5 inch to 6 inch and see that the difference is 1 inch.  

b) for  two categorial attributes we can only distinguish if they belong to the same group or to different groups. An external ordering can be imposed through auxiliary information, but the ordering is not implicit in the attributes itself.

c) for two ordinal attributes, there is a order defined for the attributes, but we can not perform real arithmetic operations with them.

Question 7.6 
-----------
Position and size (for example you position all elements of group A on the left side and all elements of group B on the right side of the screen, all elements from Group A are drawn small, all elements from group B are drawn big), shape (data points from different groups have different shapes in a scatterplot), color, texture, orientation.

Question 7.7 
-----------
Position (for example on a scale) and size. All others would in the best case be very imprecise and therefore in most cases not useful.


Animation Reasoning
-----------
For sorting I choose to implemente an animation that slides the bars into their new positions. This way the user can observe, how the different countries switch places as he changes the sorting.

For filtering/aggreating/switching the display value I choose to implement fade-in transaction. I want to make clear to the user that the view has changed and that he is moving to a new "page". I choose to not implement a more fancy transition with for example moving bars, since I believe  many of these look pretty, but do not make the interface more user friendly. In fact it introduces short delays for the user while using the application.
